# Facilitator Standup: 03 October, 2017
## Agenda
["Should two hours of business development be repurposed as a time-slot for self-organising?"](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/645)

## Attendees
- Rebeca
- MG
- Mavis
- Jen
- Shireen

## Minutes
Rebeca:
- Raised this issue to bring up the question of whether 2 hours of the week should be dedicated to students working on the running of the campus.
- Wasn't necessarily intending to restructure biz dev time.
  - How do we make time on the course for students' development & not to focus exclusively on the shaping of the business?
  - How should these 2 hours be used, if they're not going to be used for coding time?
- I'm not an expert, not in the classroom but just based on observation & on what we're trying to accomplish.

Dan:
- I'll give historical context & briefly why we introduced biz dev time, what the original reason was & my take on how we could be using it now.
- In trying to develop this programme as a peer-led programme, I wanted to engage students in ways they could shape the organisation outside the curriculum.
- We had so many organisational deficits & I felt that the student body is only place I could turn to for help.
- FAC5 / FAC6 was first time I tried to do this. Only partly successful.
- Mostly feel this was misguided. Asking students to do this in the midst of this intense experience is unhelpful and not very thoughtful to make them think about bigger issues of making FAC financially sustainable & how to manage relationships.
- Over time, most successful parts have those that migrated away from the bigger questions and closer to smaller issues e.g. make environment more pleasant for the current cohort.
- How could a student look more opportunities for their own cohort and how to gain employment outside?
- Like Rebecca's reframing. Want this to remain a more creative space for the students, rather than a way for us to shape their futures.
- Don't want to put too much structure around it or take up too much time or too much energy from the alumni surrounding it. That's the FAC dichotomy - how to be more successful than we have been in the past without taking up too much alumni time.

Rebeca:
- Biggest question - what kinds of resources, in terms of documentation and direction from people do we need, in order for people to have more direction around their projects in weeks 10-16 & how can we support a time, where they can experience growth? Reshape biz dev to what people are more interested in, in terms of personal development.
- Most curious to gain input from everyone on the call in different locations
- Suggestion of having a standup at the beginning of the time, to facilitate that growth
- Shireen facilitating FACN3. Offer accepted yesterday. Needs to be announced to the wider community. Hence asking Shireen to join this call.

Mavis:
- Are we using [Jen's agenda](https://hackmd.io/GwTghg7ApgjAzAJgLQGMAcAzESAsOZRIBGCOwSYaCAJjNWlJtVEA?view)?

Rebeca:

- Jen's agenda is very much about changing what we do during biz dev.
- Want to start with whether having biz dev is even appropriate and meets anyone's needs. Hoping to start by discussing my original issue.

-- Dan leaves for another meeting --

Shiren:
- Some of the tasks we had (e.g. Outreach, Calendar) that were not directly for the students were really useful. These are not for students' own development, but directly improves what they're doing in the course. They're actively contributing to the community and to FACN3.

Rebeca:
- Do you think, if those task groups were presented as ways to enrich the programme, do you think people might take that up? Even if it wasn't mandated for a specific time?

Shireen:
- They would probably take Outreach. Might not take Calendar - perceived as too small a task.

Mavis:
- This cohort, calendar team are only team who have consistently done stuff.
- Might be a reflection of the individual(s) ont that task, rather than the task itself

Rebeca:
- Could that member of FACN2 request that a student of FACN3 help her?

Shireen:
- If there isn't a task group, it will fall to the mentors or CF doing it. Students having a 2 hour per week timeslot takes some load off those individuals.

Rebeca:
- Any other thoughts on how you would forsee this time being spent best?

Shireen:
- Haven't thought of it hat much. Hoping we can find a creative solution today.

Rebeca:
- Hope Mavis has thoughts, having seen students throughout FACN2?

Mavis:
- Current students who are staying around in Nazareth would definitely be keen to be involved in discussion. Shireen, let's organise a time to talk them about that!
- I'm similar to Dan - having the task groups is good but puts more strain on the alumni community than anything else. Like the idea of being freer time.
- Biz dev should be about that cohort and that campus, in that community.
- London biz dev has quite different needs to Nazareth biz dev. Gaza doesn't do it. Is there need to force them into similar shape?

Rebeca:
- My intention with original issue was for it to be lose enough for campuses to interpret.
- Move away from students as responsible for the business, but rather to shape the programme as it suits them.
- If meaning of task is appropriately communicated to them, they could take it as their own.

Mavis:
- MG, I know this hasn't been part of Gaza. What do you think about this time being management of programme, but cultivating leadership and initative?
- Taking on other work which is not necessarily about business development, but more about personal development?

Gaza:
- Haven't given a reformulation any thought.
- Do like the idea that here, it could be related somehow to initiative and ownership. Struggling to envision how that would be formed.
- Not sure how much structure and external input it would require. Prob depends on campus and cohort.
- Will make a note to give it a thought.

Rebeca:
- Have time for students to organise pot lucks or community meals? i.e. other ways to get to know each other?
- Would go a lot toward what you and Elias have identified as being needed in Gaza.

MG:
- Thanks for reminder. When you don't have alumni around to create that community feeling, important to create that within the cohort.
- The way FAC is run and the ethos is particularly foreign and new here. Maybe to a lot of the people in London too? But particularly here & maybe Nazareth as well?
- In London, selection pool & selection process means that people tend to understand already. In Gaza a lot less likely for people to get it straight away.
- Need time for discussing ethos and the hierarchy or lack of.

Jen:
- Interesting to hear the different input from different campuses and different stages. How do we create a blueprint in the form of the `master-reference` that is helpful enough to provide guidance and flexible enough to allow campuses to interpret it according to their needs?
- "Business development" doesn't have a built-in structure for improvement, unlike the curriculum. Would like us to do something similar to what we're doing with updates to the curriculum, where we integrate students into the existing community, with small achievable amount of alumni involvement.
- Campuses are in different stages, so best ways of using time may be different? Biggest problem I see in London is the integration between cohorts. How do we create and communicate a shared history?
- See my suggestion/proposal as trying to reduce involvement of CF and alumni and enable students to be more autonomous. Guidelines need to be in place or students will rely on the CF or Dan, or not know what to do.

Rebeca:
- Strikes me as one, local interpretation of business development time.
- What structure would it take to enabling self-organising? What if you really want to study, is there something you really want to build? Are there people you really want to hangouts with in London?
- Getting them to direct that, even if it's paced by someone who is leading the discussion, would look a lot more student-led.

Mavis:
- Jen's point sounds right - about having a blueprint & about London being at a different stage.
- We can prob predict that whatever campus we create in a year's time will go through a similar process, so having a blueprint that that campus can follow is important.

Rebeca:
- A lot of what we're saying is complimentary. Possibly modify language to satisfy aims.
- From Jen's comments, sounds like us being less prescriptive on what the tasks are but have a useful description of what students have done in the past? In order to provide space for them to take up work which has been done effectively?
- But London has resources that can support that and not everyone else does.
- I can provide something more coherent for each campus & guidelines on documentation. London's on a slightly shorter timescale, Jen and I can take another look during our hangouts call on Friday.

Mavis:
- Sounds good.

Rebeca:
- Have that hangouts on Friday. After that, I'll provide an update on the issue & bring that back to the other campuses next week.

Mavis:
- Lubes was interested in this issue. He might have useful comments. Let's make sure he gets pointed to wherever the updates get made.
