# Facilitator Standup: 08 August, 2017

**Present**: Eoin, Elias, Jen, Mavis, Lubes, Rebecca

## Issue [\#501](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/501)

Eoin
* there seems to be implicit decisions in this issue, have I missed something?

Jen
* lot of work to expect grads to lead a week, look for work, suggest changes, etc.

Jen
* grads can absolutely still be involved in curriculum planning, but don’t need to be leading it.

Eoin
* agree in principle but will we have enough alumni?

Mavis
* responsibility for changes needs to be clear

Lubes
* changes are optional, but people wanted to make changes so whats the problem? If people propose changes, they should have a plan for implementation

Rebecca
* concerned about approval process for changes, and investing our communities in the approval.
* In favour of students participating in planning/proposing improvements/contributing, but with ultimate responsibility not lying with them. Mainly because being a good mentor takes a lot of time, and they don’t have that time immediately after the course.

Eoin
* idea: CP last time was one in person meeting in one day with everyone. Better would be distributed working groups for each week/topic.

Rebecca
* that idea fits directly into this proposal; Dan’s saying that that kind of thing would work well with experienced alumni moderating the process/discussion.
* If we’re not thoughtful about engagement with all locations, it will default to London.

Mavis
* finding the time for that during the course is difficult?

Rebecca
* general agreement around separation of CP and mentor prep?

Lubes
* still not clear; no responsibility to change a week, already have master-reference that has maintainers. What is this actually saying.

# Issue [\#511](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/511)
Jen
* Only reason I wanted convergence because we didn’t have resources in other locations. Now we have more alumni & students to do that. Always essential for campus to have autonomy. Don’t have the resources to converge, takes a lot of admin. If we are tied to convergence we are anchored by the logic and local factors of other places instead of our own.

Elias
* See my comment on the issue

Eoin
* Divergence & autonomy are separate. Autonomy is solved by X-campus teams working together.
* Divergence is necessary. Hard question is how? Prefer not to try to solve it in one go, prefer to iterate.
* Strongly feel that we should keep MR as single point of collaboration. MR should be a collection of resources that each campus can pick and choose from.

Mavis
* Broadly agree with Eoin. esp with modular resources

Lubes
* If it was iterated enough, MR would have really good resources
* Don’t see why MR should change beyond minor timetable changes.

Rebecca
* Separation of autonomy & divergence feels appropriate
* One step at a time, start with autonomy
* X-campus teams free to create different versions of the same workshop
* Forks dramatically curtail ability to provide a blueprint
* Difference between improvising and diverging. Improvisation is natural and not to be afraid of
* Curriculums always change

Jen
* No forks
* MR is documentation of each curriculum in one place.
* Agree with distinction between divergence & autonomy
* Don’t see how X-campus teams will work; bc of conflicting needs in different locations
* Major think is documenting the different improvisations in each curriculum
* Ability to create location-specific resources key

Rebecca
* Sounds like exactly what X-campus working groups would look like

Jen
* Distinction between curriculum planning and curriculum development

Rebecca
* Hearing curriculum development happens collaboratively, even if that results in multiple versions of resources, but curriculum planning (compilation of curriculum) happens in each location individually.

Eoin
* Difficult to solve two problems at the same time; of divergence and our decision making process
* 1-2 students from each campus assigned to each week + facilitator to kick off + maybe interested alumni + CF’s + MR maintainers + previous mentors of that week
* This is fine on GitHub
* Could also start CP much earlier? Wouldn’t have to wait till Gaza finished week 8.

**AP**
Eoin to write up proposal for new curriculum planning process as a starting point using the outcome of this discussion. To be iterated on over the next week. (Done in [#558](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/558))
